- [Trainer] Having our property files
enhanced with profile suffixes
like application-dev.properties, application-qa.properties,
application-prod.properties
and the default, application.properties is the first step
to keeping our application configurations
externalized and configurable.
But there are also other situations where resources
and servers we need to access
might need to be configured through beans.
These might include database servers,
message queues servers or microservices.
Spring Boot also offers the app profile that can be used
and applied to different beans to support this use case.
For this demo, we'll be using code base 01_03_begin
inside of IntelliJ Community Edition.
Once your project is loaded, we'll get started.
Let's first go ahead and create a package
called configuration.
Inside that configuration, we'll create a New Java Class
called DBConfiguration.
We'll annotate this with @ConfigurationProperties
and inside the parentheses, we'll put spring.datasource.
Next, we'll add four string variables
that will match the name that is found
in our spring data source properties.
We'll type private String_driverClassName,
private String_url, private String_userName
and private String_password.
We'll allow IntelliJ to build this
by using the Command + N, we'll select Getter and Setter
and all of the values and click OK.
Next, let's open up our properties
and make a few modifications.
Inside of the application-dev.properties,
we're going to add the following.
I'm going to paste these in to make it a little faster.
Please feel free to pause the video and enter these as well.
We'll save that.
Then we'll go to our application-qa.properties,
we'll paste in the following,
and then we'll open our prod.properties
and we'll paste in the following.
You'll notice that we have matched the property names
after the spring.datasource
at each line to the DBConfiguration
as well as to the private member variables.
The next step is to register the configuration by profile.
Let's do that now.
We'll right click on our configuration.
Go to New select Java Class,
we'll type in DBConnectionConfiguration and hit Enter.
We'll assign this annotation of Configuration
as well as EnableConfigurationProperties
and inside the parentheses here, we'll give this our class
we created a moment ago, .class.
The @EnableConfigurationProperties tell spring
to load the DBConfiguration.class
with the associated configuration properties
set in the annotation.
Okay, we need to add a private member variable here
for our class, and this will be private_DBConfiguration
and will allow IntelliJ to give that its name.
Then we're going to create a Constructor,
we'll use Command + N and select the Constructor, click OK.
And with that complete, let's add our profile annotations
with the associated members.
Now we're going to fill these out with very simple system out
print lines to show the DBConnectionProperties
when they're matching the environment profile.
Let's create the first one.
We call this one public String_devDBConnection.
Inside this, we'll use a system out print line
of DB Connection for DEV
followed by another system out print line, DBConfiguration,
and we'll get the Url.
We'll do this again,
dbconfiguration to get the DriverClassName,
again, dbConfiguration to get the UserName.
And one more time, dbConfiguration to get the Password.
We return this with a string, DB Connection for DEV.
We'll follow this by annotating it with @Profile
and we'll specify dev.
We'll also annotate this with an @Bean.
Now to make quicker, I'm going to copy this, paste it again.
This time, changing the dev to qa,
changing the name of the class to qa,
changing the information here to QA and the return to QA.
We'll paste this one more time for our prod instance.
Change the profile to prod,
change the method signature to prod
and a few items here to PROD as well as the return.
Okay, so next we need to clean and build.
And once this is done,
we'll type java-jar-Dspring.profiles.active=dev build/libs
tab over to get the application name and hit Enter.
And as we can see, we scroll up,
we see the environment dev that was chosen
and the properties associated with it.
Let's change it one more time.
This time we'll change it to qa, hit Enter.
We scroll up again.
We can see that it's pulling the properties listed for QA.